
INCREASE YOUR INVESTMENT SUCCESS IN RWANDA WITH NTARE INSIGHTS

Investing or establishing a business in a foreign country is a complex process, and can be a

complex process, especially when you do not speak the local language. You need a local partner

that can advise you and make the process easier and safer. NtareInsights has assisted many

foreign investors and entrepreneurs establish their businesses in Rwanda.

NtareInsights offers a wide range of services to foreign investors and entrepreneurs looking to

establish operations in Rwanda. Our team is experienced, multilingual (English, French, Italian,

Swahili and Kinyarwanda) and can act as your indispensable partner for success in Rwanda.

1

ADVISORY SERVICES

ACROSS AFRICA

INVESTORS ADVISORY

SERVICE

NTARE INSIGHTS - INVESTORS

ADVISORY SERVICES

The stages that NtareInsights can help you with are summarised as follows:

Scenario One - Prior to establishment in Rwanda

This upfront support focuses on providing a foreign investor with all the information and

contacts they need to make a decision on whether they should invest or establish a business in

Rwanda. This assistance allows you to answer the following questions, amongst others:



What are the costs of operating in Rwanda: labour, materials, capital and operational costs?

In what sectors can a foreigner invest in Rwanda and under what conditions?

From what benefits and subsidies can a foreign investor benefit?

What tax advantages are available to a foreign investor?

What income tax rates apply?

What is the social security system and social tax rates?

What are the average salary levels for employees in different industries?

What is the cost of rent?

How does imports and customs work and what are the import taxes?

NtareInsights can answer these questions through:

Market research and market studies

Feasibility studies

Evaluating the benefits of setting up in one of the available industrial zones

Organising and coordinating meetings with officials at the appropriate government Ministries and

organisations

Connecting the investor with companies and organisations that can furnish any other required

information

Establishing the business in Rwanda

Scenario Two- During the establishment of your business, as you ask yourself these questions:

What legal structures are available for incorporation in Rwanda?

What are the legal steps to set up the business?

How does the currency regulation work, and how do you establish foreign currency accounts?

What is the status of foreign staff in Rwanda?

What are the accounting obligations?

What are the statutory auditing obligations?

Will the investor need to pay tax in their home country?

2

Is there a tax treaty between the foreign investor's country?

What regulations (such as mandatory holiday periods) exist in Rwanda?

NtareInsights can answer these questions through:

Advice on the optimal legal structure for your business

Establishment of your legal structure, managing all the details for you

Assistance in opening bank accounts, both in Dinars and foreign currency (EUR, USD, GBP etc)

Assistance in recruiting qualified staff

Management of the various legal and procedural steps (tax and social security registration, etc)

Running your business in Rwanda

Scenario Three - After you are established and are focused on running and growing your

business, NtareInsights can assist you in your day to day operational needs by providing you

with the following services:

Accounting

Book keeping

Preparation and filing of labour procedures

Management of payroll

Advice regarding tax and employment law